# RAKSHA
Web Based Intrusion Detection and Prevention System(ID&amp;PS). 

Abstract


Around 70 to 75% of the websites today are powered by PHP. That’s
Obviously a huge market share. Despite being a giant among small and
medium websites, PHP have some serious security issues which exposes
businesses and services across the world with huge risk in terms of
information security and resource abuse.
The RAKSHA is a PHP based Web Security Suite which Emphasizes on
Intrusion Detection & Prevention. Central Feature of this Web
Security suite is it is highly modular in nature thus the scalability
of features and usage can be expanded as the particular user’s needs.
Its Functionalities include Protection from SQL Injection, XSS,
Proxy, Spam, Malicious Traffic, Malicious Header, Request Forgery
etc.
RAKSHA suite includes Robust Web based ID&PS which composes of
Restriction Panel, Spam DB Integration, Bots and Crawler Protection
etc.
Also RAKSHA is Equipped with some Essential Server Protection Tools
like .htaccess Editor, Port Scanner, Hash Encoder etc.
Finally RAKSHA has minimal but Powerful GUI which Represents
offensive and Defensive Reports Graphically.


Introduction - S/W Objective


The Main Objective of RAKSHA is to provide Web based Suite of tools
to Small and Medium Website Owners to Protect and Monitor their
Websites from Malicious Attacks. Powered with the User-Friendly GUI,
This tool can be used without any Prior Knowledge in Programming. The
Central Part of this Web App is it's Dashboard which have all other
Features connected. The Access to the Dashboard is through a Login
Page. Logs and Records are stored in SQL Database. The Tool uses
Variety of Algorithms and Frameworks to Deter Malicious Web Traffic
along with it utilizes API services to fetch IP details of Visitor
and Profile them.
